# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`profile_mysql_server`](#profile_mysql_server): Manage a MySQL/MariaDB server configuration.
* [`profile_mysql_server::backup`](#profile_mysql_serverbackup): Add a backup job to backup databases via profile_backup.

## Classes

### <a name="profile_mysql_server"></a>`profile_mysql_server`

Manage a MySQL/MariaDB server configuration.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include profile_mysql_server
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `profile_mysql_server` class:

* [`create_mysql_home`](#create_mysql_home)
* [`dbs`](#dbs)
* [`manage_yumrepo`](#manage_yumrepo)
* [`mysql_gid`](#mysql_gid)
* [`mysql_groupname`](#mysql_groupname)
* [`mysql_home`](#mysql_home)
* [`mysql_logdir`](#mysql_logdir)
* [`mysql_rundir`](#mysql_rundir)
* [`mysql_uid`](#mysql_uid)
* [`mysql_username`](#mysql_username)
* [`other_dependencies`](#other_dependencies)
* [`yumrepo`](#yumrepo)

##### <a name="create_mysql_home"></a>`create_mysql_home`

Data type: `Boolean`

Should the mysql_home be created?

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="dbs"></a>`dbs`

Data type: `Hash`

Raw data to define mysql::db resources.

##### <a name="manage_yumrepo"></a>`manage_yumrepo`

Data type: `Boolean`

Should the mysql Yumrepo be managed? Must also provide
Hiera data for the $yumrepo param.

##### <a name="mysql_gid"></a>`mysql_gid`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Optionally define the GID for the mysql group (and PGID for the mysql user).
Must also provide $mysql_uid. If both $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid are provided,
the mysql user and group will be created as will various directories.

##### <a name="mysql_groupname"></a>`mysql_groupname`

Data type: `String`

The name of the mysql group.

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="mysql_home"></a>`mysql_home`

Data type: `String`

The home dir of the mysql user.

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="mysql_logdir"></a>`mysql_logdir`

Data type: `String`

Location of MySQL log files.

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="mysql_rundir"></a>`mysql_rundir`

Data type: `String`

Location of run directory (generally a sub-directory of /var/run/).

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="mysql_uid"></a>`mysql_uid`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Optionally define the UID of the mysql user. Must also provide $mysql_gid. If
both $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid are provided, the mysql user and group will be
created as will various directories.

##### <a name="mysql_username"></a>`mysql_username`

Data type: `String`

Username of the mysql user.

NOTE: $mysql_gid and $mysql_uid must also be specified for this to do anything.

##### <a name="other_dependencies"></a>`other_dependencies`

Data type: `Array`

Other depencies to handle prior to other MySQL setup, specified as resources, e.g.:
  - "Mount['/var/lib/mysql']"

##### <a name="yumrepo"></a>`yumrepo`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Raw params containing a yumrepo resource (or multiple yumrepo resources) from which
to install MySQL/MariaDB.

### <a name="profile_mysql_serverbackup"></a>`profile_mysql_server::backup`

Add a backup job to backup databases via profile_backup.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include profile_mysql_server::backup
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `profile_mysql_server::backup` class:

* [`backup_cmd`](#backup_cmd)
* [`backup_cmd_options`](#backup_cmd_options)
* [`databases`](#databases)

##### <a name="backup_cmd"></a>`backup_cmd`

Data type: `String`

Command used to backup the database. Output to STDOUT.
Generally mysqldump.

##### <a name="backup_cmd_options"></a>`backup_cmd_options`

Data type: `String`

Options to add to the command to dump the database
An example would be --single-transaction.

##### <a name="databases"></a>`databases`

Data type: `Array[String]`

A list of databases to backup. Default is back up all databases

